The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frank Allen at Gold Fork, by Graham B.
Forbes

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Frank Allen at Gold Fork
       Locating the Lost Claim

Author: Graham B. Forbes

Release Date: February 7, 2023 [eBook #69968]

Language: English

Produced by: David Edwards, Graeme Mackreth and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This book was
             produced from images made available by the HathiTrust
             Digital Library.)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FRANK ALLEN AT GOLD
FORK ***


[Illustration: HE SNATCHED UP A BURNING BRAND AND SENT IT WHIZZING
THROUGH THE AIR

 _Frank Allen at Gold Fork_        _Frontispiece_ (Page 121)]




 FRANK ALLEN AT
 GOLD FORK

 OR

 Locating the Lost Claim

 BY

 GRAHAM B. FORBES

 _Author of "Frank Allen and his Motor Boat,"
 "Frank Allen at Rockspur Ranch," etc._

 [Illustration]

 GARDEN CITY          NEW YORK
 GARDEN CITY PUBLISHING CO., INC.
 1926




THE FAMOUS FRANK ALLEN SERIES

BY GRAHAM B. FORBES


_See back of book for list of titles_


 COPYRIGHT, 1926, BY
 GARDEN CITY PUBLISHING COMPANY, INC.

 Frank Allen at Gold Fork
 MADE IN THE U.S.A.




FRANK ALLEN AT GOLD FORK




CHAPTER I

AT THE HORSE CORRAL GATE


"There he is again, Frank! The same queer chap we saw before!"

"That's a dead certainty, Lanky. But lower your voice a bit or he might
take the alarm and vamoose."

"I sure wonder what he's prowling around Rockspur ranch-house for, and
on a moonlight night, at that. But, Frank, it isn't our old enemy, Nash
Yesson, is it?" cried Lanky Wallace explosively.

"No. And I'm just as sure it isn't Lef Seller," came from Frank Allen,
referring to the bully of Columbia, Frank's home town.

The scene was the living room of Rockspur Ranch in the far West, where
so many exciting things had already happened to Frank Allen and his
chums, Lanky Wallace--whose folks owned the ranch--and Paul Bird. Paul
was slumbering peacefully, totally unaware of what was taking place
outside.

"There! You can see him plainer now, Frank!" went on Lanky. "He
seems to be a runt of a man, with a big head and bushy hair. An ugly
customer, I'd say. Do you reckon he's mixed up with the Yesson crowd?"

"Looks that way to me. See him wriggling along now, like a snake in the
grass. He's up to some mischief, all right."

"He's wearing a cowboy hat, you can see now, Frank; must belong over
with that tough gang at the Double Z Ranch."

"Whatever his game is, he'd better watch his eye or he'll find Lige
Smith and his punchers hustling after him. Right now they're all radio
hounds, and bunched inside the bunk-house, listening to jazz dance
music."

"Say, I wonder, Frank!"

"What's struck you now, Lanky? Don't move, for that fellow's staring
straight at this window! Gee, I'm glad our fire's died down! There!
he's moving off again. What were you wondering about?"

Lanky Wallace snickered, as though amused by his thoughts.

"Why, don't you see, Frank? he's trying to find some way of getting
hold of the map we grabbed, along with the gold nuggets when we
watched Nash Yesson and Lef Seller dig up that rusty iron chest in the
underground cellar."

Frank Allen considered the suggestion seriously, waiting a full minute
before replying.

"Sounds reasonable, I must admit," he finally agreed. "We know that
it was the crude map Josh Kinney left hidden there, that pair was so
anxious to lay their hands on."

"Sure! It contains valuable clues that would help a prospector locate
the long-lost gold claim Josh worked years ago."

"Now he's moving off, for some reason or other," went on Frank Allen.
"It might pay us to slip outside and see if we can't get a line on his
scheme."

"Bully! I was just wishing you'd say something that meant action,"
whispered Lanky Wallace. "But I hope you're not thinking of rousing a
hornet's nest around his ears by poking a stick in the bunk-house and
stirring up the Rockspur punchers?"

"Nope. We'll play this game by ourselves, Lanky. Sorry Paul happens
to be asleep and nursing his lame ankle. He's going to miss all the
excitement."

"Lucky for us we chanced to take a squint out of this window in the big
living room before hitting the hay in our cubbyhole bedrooms." This
being followed by a series of boyish chuckles, told plainer than any
words could have done how pleased Lanky felt over the situation.

"Come along, and we'll slip out by the back door." Saying this, Frank
led the way, with his chum trailing at his heels.

Mrs. Wallace and Minnie Cuthbert--a Columbia girl who had come West for
the summer vacation, partly to be companion for Lanky's mother, and who
was also a tried and true pal of Frank Allen's--had retired some time
before, leaving the two boys to sit up and talk over their plans for
the near future.

Softly Frank and Lanky passed into the kitchen, which they found empty
at that late hour of the night, Charlie Gin Sing, the slant-eyed
Chinese cook, having joined the bunch over at the bunk-house to listen
as the loud-speaker sent out weird jazz, which seem to appeal to his
sense of music.

"Wait while I take a peep first and make sure he didn't swing around to
this side of the ranch buildings," Frank cautioned in his companion's
ear.

"Coast Clear?" queried Lanky, with bated breath, a moment later.

"Yes. And I could just make him out moving toward the horse corral!"
Frank informed him.

"Say, you don't reckon he's got some funny game up his sleeve, do you,
Frank?"

"What kind?"

"Oh, such as would set the saddle band of broncos streaking it out on
the prairie, mad with fear, to leave the Rockspur punchers without a
single mount to saddle."

"What good would that do him, Lanky? Though perhaps he might hope to
find a chance to steal that map while the men were all rushing after
the stampeding ponies. But we'll try to look out for that sort of game.
Come on!"

The chums crept outside. One thing Frank Allen had already noticed that
seemed to be in their favor--the rear part of the house was in shadow.
Even the keenest of eyes could not discover that the kitchen door had
opened to give egress to a couple of bent-over figures.

"See him still?" asked Lanky eagerly.
Dima
"He ducked into that bunch of cottonwoods over there," Frank informed
him. "Just the same, you must remember that the corral lies at the far
end of that patch of woods. Now for some scout work! And it'll pay us
to keep as close to the ground as we can."

"Whee! hope we don't run across any rattlers out here, Frank?"

"No danger," whiffed the other over his shoulder, for he was advancing
steadily and cautiously; "those who ought to know say that snakes never
move around during the night."

A soft sound like escaping steam told how greatly relieved Lanky felt;
for from early childhood his one horror had been serpents of any kind.
He had even been known to make a wry face when impaling an angleworm on
his hook, as if it reminded him of his pet aversion.

Frank stuck to his original belief that the mysterious prowler was
heading for the horse corral, and he shaped his course so as to come
upon this fenced-in enclosure somewhere near the gate.

The stockade was of such a height that even a prize jumper among the
broncos could never get its forelegs across the upper bar. Besides
this, in order to further insure the safekeeping of the restless
ponies, a hedge of thorny Osage orange had been cultivated, the mature
trees giving the animals considerable shelter from the scorching rays
of an August sun.

Every dozen feet or so Frank would come to a pause, and at such times
seemed to be using both eyes and ears to discover any unusual movement
or sound around the corral.

"You were right, Frank," whispered Lanky, catching hold of his
companion's arm with his fingers and pinching harder than he intended.
"I just glimpsed the fellow going inside. He's left the gate wide open
too! Listen to the ponies snort and plunge, will you?"

"Get a move on, Lanky! We ought to be nearer the gate, so as to turn
the horses back if they try to break loose."

Lanky was only too willing, since such a move promised to bring them to
close grips with the possible horse-thief should the fellow start to
rush from the corral after securing a mount.

The confusion inside the pen grew rapidly worse.

"He's trying to rope a pony he's picked out as a prize!" breathed the
excited Lanky.

"We'd have him in a nice trap if we closed the gate of the corral and
whooped for the boys to come on the jump!" suggested Frank, spurred on
by the apparent necessity of doing something speedily.

"Good idea, too!" the other burst out, no longer caring who heard his
voice, for the matter had by then about reached the crisis.

"Quick! He's coming full tilt, Lanky! Swing the heavy gate around this
way and let me fasten it!"

It might have turned out better, if only they had conceived it a few
seconds sooner. As it was, the rushing pony, urged on by savage kicks
from a pair of spurred heels, was bearing down straight upon the two
boys.

"Look out, Frank!" shrilled Lanky, as he saw a towering form between
his eyes and the bright moon. At the same time he ducked in hopes of
getting out of the way of the bronco's furious rush.

The frightened animal, seeing some moving object in its path, sheered
to one side. That saved Lanky from the full force of a collision; but
even as it was he received a push that sent him sprawling headlong to
the ground.

Scrambling hastily to his feet, somewhat the worse for his upset, Lanky
looked around to see what luck had befallen his partner in the mad
attempt of trying to halt a frightened, galloping bronco.

"Oh, Frank!" he called out; and then his heart seemed to stand still
with dread as he glimpsed a still figure huddled in a heap on the
prairie some ten feet away, showing that Frank Allen had also been
struck down.




CHAPTER II

THE SUDDEN ALARM


Just before Lanky Wallace was struck by the rush of the stolen bronco
and knocked to the ground, he had let out the cowboy whoop for help.

It reached the ears of Hoptoad Atkins, the smallest rustler in the
Rockspur bunch, as he was emerging from the bunk-house to see what the
weather promised for the morning, he having a long gallop before him.
At the same moment he heard the racket over at the horse corral, and
sensing trouble of some sort sprang back into the house with a shout.

"Stampede of the ponies! Get out of here, everybody, with a rush!"

The cowboys came pouring out, and made for the corral in a string, the
longest-legged being in the fore. Lanky, they found bending anxiously
over Frank, who, having been knocked senseless, was just beginning to
show signs of returning consciousness.

"Thief got away with one of our mounts," hurriedly explained Lanky. "He
bowled both of us over when he came out of the corral like a tornado.
Little critter with the biggest head you ever saw--been prowling around
here at night, twice now. We tried to trap him in the circle, but he
was too quick on the get-away!"

"Which way did he lope, Lanky?" demanded Lige Smith, the wiry and
experienced foreman of the ranch.

"Reckon it was over west; but I'm a bit hazy after that knockout,"
returned the boy.

"I sure heard far-off hoofbeats in that quarter when I busted out of
the shack!" announced Zander Forbes emphatically.

"Git ther ponies," broke in old Jerry Brime, a veteran puncher with the
enthusiasm of a man half his age. "Mebbe we kin straddle him yet before
he gits to the Double Z outfit! Whoopee!"

A rush was made into the corral, and lively hustling followed as each
puncher picked out his special mount and roped him by the light of the
moon's bright rays.

"Good luck, boys!" bellowed the still excited Lanky, as the cowboys
galloped madly away. There was a little regret in his heart because he
could not leave Frank Allen and join in the mad chase.

By this time Frank had pretty well recovered after his painful
experience. He would feel a bit sore for some days, but could be
thankful his injuries were no more serious than a few bruises.

"We made a fine mess of it that time, Lanky," he observed, when it was
found that no bones had been broken by his nasty fall.

"Huh! didn't move quick enough! A matter of ten seconds; but that was
plenty to queer the game, all right."

"He meant to stampede the whole bunch of ponies, looked like to me,"
Frank Allen remarked. "I wish we knew just what his scheme was, hanging
around here and taking such big risks."

"I'm still thinking he wanted to have a try for that paper," affirmed
Lanky doggedly, "and when he found he hadn't a ghost of a chance to lay
his paws on the same, why, he got mad, and reckoned he'd have the laugh
on our outfit by stampeding the range ponies."

The two boys made their way to the house, followed by Charlie Gin
Sing. Here they found Mr. and Mrs. Wallace, as well as Minnie Cuthbert
and Paul Bird, up and partly dressed, they having been aroused by the
unusual clamor, and more than curious to understand what it all meant.

"No sleep for me with all this stuff going on," announced Lanky, as
he sat before the resurrected fire in the big living room. "I mean to
stay right here till the cows come home--I mean the cowboys--and have a
close-up look at that skunk, if they overtake him."

None of the others evinced any desire to seek their beds; so half an
hour afterwards when they heard the riders talking and laughing over by
the corral both Lanky and Frank went out to learn what the result of
the chase was.

"Shucks, he got clean away!" Lanky ejaculated, after hearing what some
of the men had to say.

"But, anyway," announced the effeminate-looking puncher with the high
voice, who had come West to build up his health and who rejoiced in the
name of Sally Keating, "the joke is on that coyote, because he had the
bad luck to pick out the worst pony in the whole outfit, with more mean
traits than you can shake a stick at."

"You don't mean that white-eyed terror we call Whitey Knocker, do you
Sally?" shrilled Lanky, in great joy. Upon the other's wagging his head
in the affirmative, he continued with a bit of spite in his voice:
"Then he's in for a peck of trouble! I only hope that bronc will break
his own neck in the bargain when he goes down in a crash with his
rider."

Lanky knew from experience what a pack of tricks Knocker had for all
occasions. There were several sore spots on the boy's person that he
could lay to his determination to beat the pony with that wicked white
eye at his own game, his father having finally been compelled to
forbid any repetition of the dangerous task.

By degrees the excitement died out, and there was an exodus of tired
riders and others to their own quarters.

With the morning the boys went over the ground to revive their
recollection of every incident connected with the previous night's
thievery. They even followed the tracks of Whitey Knocker for some
little distance, which could be done through a certain queer formation
of the pony's off hind hoof.

"No use going any further, Lanky," said Frank finally. "The trail keeps
on getting fainter right along, as the soil changes."

"Then, all we've learned," suggested his chagrined chum, "is that when
he flew the coop he headed about as straight as the bee flies for
Double Z Ranch."

"But our boys all say they've seen every puncher in that outfit, and
what we could tell about this runt's looks with his big head didn't fit
any of that rough bunch. Still, he may be a newcomer, playing a lone
hand in hanging around Rockspur at night."

Frank Allen had always been a leader among his boy friends in the home
town of Columbia in the East, as told in the first volume of this
series called "Frank Allen's School Days."

Rockspur Ranch, a small cattle industry located on the plains, had been
left to Mrs. Wallace by her bachelor brother, George Rockford, and the
Wallaces had come out, partly for the banker's health, but also to
inspect the newly acquired property.

Frank Allen and Paul Bird had been asked to become members of the
party, and Minnie Cuthbert, the prettiest and most sensible girl in all
Columbia--at least so Frank was firmly convinced--was along to keep
Mrs. Wallace company.

A man by the name of Nash Yesson had tried to buy the property from the
new owner. That failing, he had, with the assistance of Lef Seller,
known as the bully and worst boy in Columbia, tried to get possession
of a treasure he knew to be buried in a cellar under the ranch pantry.

The vigilance of Frank Allen and his chums defeated this effort, and
the plotters were chased off, leaving the old rusty iron box they
had dug up in the possession of the rightful owners. All of these
happenings have been narrated in the pages of the book just preceding
this, under the title of "Frank Allen at Rockspur Ranch."

Lanky's uneasiness concerning the possible continued efforts of Yesson
and Lef to steal the valuable paper and chart that, with gold nuggets,
had lain in the iron box so many years, accounted for his suspicions
that the mysterious nightly visits of the man with the big head were
connected in some way with the long-buried treasure.

One of the papers yellowed by age that fell into the Wallaces'
possession had been a rudely drawn chart of a mountainous section of
country where years before gold had been found in paying quantities and
a little mining settlement named Gold Fork was located.

It was understood that this place was now deserted, the shacks in
ruins. So all hope of ever locating the long-lost mine worked in secret
by Josh Kinney, former owner of Rockspur Ranch, died away.

This map had been drawn by Josh Kinney himself. Its existence was
known, but no human eye had ever beheld it save the maker's up to the
time it fell into the possession of Frank Allen and his two chums.

Jerry Brime knew something about the lost claim, for he had worked
alongside Kinney at cattle raising and had himself tried, but without
success, to follow the other when he disappeared. Jerry believed that
Kinney was laying in a fresh stock of gold nuggets from the rich
deposit, or "pocket," in his secret mine when this happened.

Brime and the three boys held many consultations as the days passed.
The boys were bent on making an effort to locate Kinney's source of
treasure-trove, and so asked a multitude of questions. Some of these
Jerry answered readily, but in other cases his memory failed him.

"Wait till we-uns git up thar at Gold Fo'k," he would say. "Mebbe ole
Jerry's mind'll be freshened a bit by seein' the ole place agin. Thet
map's a-goin' to help a heap; an' I do reckon we'll git our paws on the
stuff thet's hidden away in the five-fingered cave."

In the end Frank and Lanky came to believe that they must wait until
Mr. Wallace gave the word for the little expedition to set forth. Then,
if luck favored them, all might yet turn out well.

"There's only one thing that bothers me," Lanky said the afternoon
they gave up trying to squeeze more information from the willing but
helpless Jerry Brime.

"I can guess what it is," chucked Frank. "Nash Yesson?"

"And his crony, Lef Seller," admitted the smiling Lanky Wallace. "They
may be hanging around here; for they are stickers, all right. Then
again, for all we know, the pair may be up at Gold Fork raking the
ground over with a fine-tooth comb, looking for the lost claim."

"What of it?" Frank asked complacently. "A heap of others did that same
thing years ago and only found themselves up against a blank wall. I
tell you, Josh Kinney was a cute one and knew how to keep a secret."

"Glad to see you feel so confident, Frank. With Jerry along to revive
his memory of things and that little chart to help, I guess we've got a
better chance to spot that claim than anybody ever had before. But that
was startling news you had in the last letter from Buster Billings, our
fat chum back in Columbia."

"Well, I'm not much surprised about Lef," said Frank, shaking his head
as he spoke. "We always knew he was a bad egg, up to every kind of
mischief he could think of."

"But to make away with something like two-hundred-and-fifty dollars
which his father had given him to pay some bills!" exclaimed Lanky.
"They said he lost it at the races, betting on losing nags," he added
musingly.

"And now," Frank went on to say, "Buster tells us Mr. Seller reports
five thousand dollars in Liberty Bonds missing; and he adds that
suspicion strongly points to his own son, Lef, as the one who robbed
the home safe."

"Well, Lef is in a section of country right now where Lynch law often
overtakes a rascal; and believe me, Frank, if he's caught red-handed in
any of his ugly tricks out here he'll not have an indulgent dad to help
him out of the fix."

"As long as we have any reason to believe that precious pair still hang
out around here, Lanky, we've got to keep our eyes peeled for trouble.
What under the sun are you sniffing like that for? Think you smell a
skunk around?"

"Made me think of the way we smoked that mountain lion out of his
den--smell of dried grass, all right. I wonder if the boys are burning
off a piece of meadow that's turned brown in this dry spell?"

Frank himself was now busily engaged in "sniffing."

"Well, there must be a fire where there's smoke," he said finally, at
the same time showing a trace of uneasiness. "Strikes me, it comes from
over that way."

"Look at that burst of smoke shoot up on the other side of the house!"
cried Lanky. "Some fire, that must be as sure as-- There, listen to
Charlie Gin Sing giving tongue! The cook's as scared as a singed cat.
Let's scoot over that way, Frank, and see what they're doing. Now
others are yelling to beat the band! We were longing for excitement,
and, sure enough, here she comes full tilt!"

"Lanky, it's the barn on fire, I do believe!" Frank managed to say as
the pair of them went at full speed, swerving so as to pass around the
house, when they would have a full unobstructed view.

"With all that hay and the straw from last year in it, too!" added the
other.

Then as the boys turned the corner where Gin Sing was now beating
wildly on a monster frying pan and making a dreadful din, Lanky
finished with a whoop, and increased his pace, if such a thing were
possible.

No question about its being the barn that was ablaze, for vast
volumes of smoke were already pouring out from several places. These
continually grew in density, while wicked looking red tongues of flame
could be seen playing amidst the dense belching billows.

Frank had gone as white as chalk.

"Your mother--Minnie!" he gasped.

"What of them?" cried the agitated Lanky.

"I saw them go in some time ago! Oh, Lanky! what if they are still
inside the old barn, trapped like rats and blinded with all that
smoke?"




CHAPTER III

TRAPPED IN THE BURNING BARN


Lanky Wallace apparently could find no words to express the feeling of
horror that gripped his heart. Never did any boy have a dearer mother
than his own "Mom." No wonder the possibility of losing her in such a
terrible tragedy seemed to freeze the very blood in his veins.

It was indeed an exciting time at Rockspur Ranch. Men were shouting as
they ran toward the burning barn as only big-lunged cow-punchers can
shout. The excited cook meanwhile continued to whang away with his big
spoon, as though the frying pan he held might be a dinner gong and he
meant to summon those who were a full mile away.

Too, the crackling of the leaping flames told that they were gathering
fresh headway with every passing second, and these sounds began to be a
factor in the conglomeration of noises that had so suddenly sprung into
existence on that sunny afternoon in early summer.

Barns were not always to be found on cattle ranches, for it had
usually been the habit of cattlemen to let their herds shift the best
they could during ordinary winters. Usually there are sheltered nooks
on the range where forage may be found with unusual efforts by the
stock.

But George Rockford, Lanky Wallace's deceased uncle and the late owner
of these hundreds of acres, had a mind of his own. He was not to be
governed by what had been good enough for his predecessors.

So he had built a big barn, though lumber was difficult to secure and
had to be brought many miles, even from the mountain gorges. In this
barn he always kept a certain amount of hay and straw, for emergencies,
he explained to the scoffers.

Several times during his occupancy of the place his forethought had
been rewarded. When an unusually severe winter rolled around, during
which stock out on the ranges suffered grievous losses through deep
snows and blustering blizzards, that reserve stock of feed had saved
the Rockspur herd from much privation.

Lanky could see some of the cowboys bringing up a hose that was
attached to the tank of water meant for household use. The stock were
driven to a never-failing creek about two miles away for watering,
or, if they were loose on the range, they found their way there by
themselves.

In his excitement Lanky made a dive for a bucket, and then gasped in
dismay when a furious burst of angry looking flame darted out from a
crack in the side of the barn, for all the world like the tongue of
some gigantic serpent.

"Oh, Frank! what can we do?" he moaned. Even as he said these words he
realized that Frank was no longer at his side.

Some instinct caused Lanky to turn his anxious gaze once more on the
doomed barn. Knowing Frank Allen as well as he did, he understood what
the other would be doing about that time.

"He's gone--right inside--and I've got to follow my leader!"

Lanky would have dashed blindly forward and despite the peril involved
enter the door where that choking smoke was pouring forth, only that
his father caught hold of him just in time.

Mr. Wallace, on learning that his wife and Minnie had been seen
entering the barn some time before fire was discovered, had become
greatly alarmed and had tried to go in after them, only to be driven
back by the fierce flames. Now he would not listen for a moment the
wild plea of Lanky to be allowed to follow Frank.

"I should have stopped Frank, too," said the gentleman, in a quivering
voice, "had I guessed what he meant to do when I saw him running
forward and taking off his coat. If he is lost it will be terrible!
And your mother, too! The boys have already done everything possible
for human strength and skill to accomplish. We can only pray they may
all be spared."

"Zander Forbes is in there too, they say," blubbered the badly shaken
Lanky.

"I shall never forget his heroism, and Frank's, too," said Mr. Wallace.
"If I thought I could make it--" His voice broke. "I tried it before
you came, but the flames drove me back."

"There's one of the boys coming out now!" quavered Lanky, pointing his
finger as he spoke. "Why, he's leading Bessie, our pet milk cow! He has
put a blanket over her eyes to blind her." The cowboy had used this
covering as a blinder to the cow, knowing that otherwise it would be
utterly impossible to urge her along past shooting lances of flame.

Lanky's voice died away in a low groan, for his suddenly aroused hopes
had been just as speedily shattered. Only a cow saved, while precious
human lives were hanging in the balance!

When Frank was gripped by the feeling that he must make a desperate
attempt to find and save Mrs. Wallace and Minnie Cuthbert, he lost not
a second in debating whether it was safe or not.

He could see that he would be met with considerable of that smothering
smoke the instant he stepped past the open door of the burning barn.
That was why he commenced to tear off his coat as he ran. Frank
wrapped his coat about his head in the endeavor to protect his mouth,
eyes, and nostrils as much as possible.

He knew the die had been cast as soon as he entered the place, since
his retreat was cut off by a fresh burst of scorching flames and all he
could do was to make his way forward.

From time to time he called at the top of his voice, but was staggered
to find what a small amount of noise he could make, owing to the
pungent smoke of the burning hay and straw.

The covering his head gave him some relief at first; but in a very
short time he found his eyes smarting fearfully and tears helping to
blind his vision.

Groping his way and trying as best he could to avoid those places
where the hay was fully in the grip of the fire, Frank presently found
himself falling.

The boy did not know what sort of a hole he had incautiously stepped
into, for he had taken but a cursory view of the inside of the old barn
during his sole visit there. Throwing out both hands, he sought to find
some support, so as to stop the sickening downward movement. He came to
a halt with a thump, one of his feet becoming fast between two upright
timbers.

His situation was now much more desperate than before, since, try as he
did, he seemed utterly unable to get his foot free from that clutch of
the V-shaped timbers. It was as though he had become enmeshed in the
tentacles of some unseen monster, which, gifted with enormous powers,
was bent on holding him there a prisoner until the oncoming flames
reached the spot.




CHAPTER IV

A CLOSE SHAVE


Frank Allen was not one to give up easily. He continued to strive to
free the snared foot, his efforts being accentuated by the fierce heat
of the roaring furnace that ate its way through the tons on tons of
combustibles. In his extremity he shouted at the top of his voice, at
the same time doubtful whether his cries could reach outside of the
barn, with all that noise of crackling flames and roaring draughts.
Still he continued to call.

"Help! Help!"

Although calling for assistance, the youth did not cease his frantic
efforts to dislodge his trapped foot. He knew only too well what a
slender chance there was that any one should be close enough to hear
his cries and come to his rescue, even in the doubtful event of being
able to get through the flames.

Then what was close to an inspiration flashed through his excited
brain, and he lost no time in trying anew to break loose.

Luckily, he was able to bend over far enough to get at his shoe. With
eager fingers he tore the laces open, and then made a last desperate
effort to free his right foot.

A thrill ran through the boy when he found that he could draw the foot
out of his shoe! He was saved--least, he was given a fresh chance to
escape the dreadful fate that threatened to overwhelm him!

Sensible even in such a situation, Frank next tore his shoe loose,
and managed to get it on after a fashion. Then he turned away from
the furious blast of fire and groped through the dense smoke, heading
he knew not in which direction, only that he was fending off the
threatening catastrophe a little longer by fleeing.

The fact that he was not acquainted with the interior of the barn
brought him fresh trouble. An avenue of escape might be close at his
elbow, an opening such as would afford him exit, and Frank would not be
aware of the fact.

He was experiencing for the first time in all his life the sensation
that grips one who realizes he is lost. In the woods or among the
hills, with a sky overhead to give him the points of the compass, no
one could be better than Frank Allen at making his way to safety. But
it was vastly different in that smoke-filled structure.

Once more he gave tongue, in the hope that if Zander Forbes or any
other of his cowboy friends were close by he would catch the call and
cheer the groping wanderer with an answering whoop. Meanwhile, what of
Mrs. Wallace and of Minnie? At thought of Minnie his heart sank.

Once the situation took on new threats. A burst of flame straight ahead
warned Frank that he must sheer aside if he wished to escape being
singed. His heart seemed to be in his throat with the suspense that
continually gripped him. And, oh, how he yearned for a breath of fresh
air!

Then he thought he caught the sound of a husky voice calling his own
name. Could Lanky have followed him into the barn, and was even then
wandering this way and that, chased by the fire, and in as great a
predicament as himself?

Again Frank let out a whoop, and was cheered to catch an answering
cowboy yell. Then it was not his chum after all, but one of the
punchers. Somehow, this thought gave Frank renewed courage, for every
one of the Rockspur outfit must be well acquainted with the barn's
angles that had proved so confusing to him, and could thus lead the way
to an exit.

Nearer came the booming voice, heard despite all the clamor around him.
Now the boy could glimpse a moving figure, pushing in a beeline for
the quarter where he chanced to be.

"Jerry! is it _you_?" Frank shrilled, somehow touched by this evidence
of affection on the part of the old rustler who did not hesitate to
risk his own life in the endeavor to save that of his young friend.

"It sure is, Frank! I'm comin' to git yuh out o' this hot box. Hain't
got much time to waste neither, 'case the hull pesky roof is shore to
drap in on us right quick."

Jerry had taken hold of Frank's left arm while saying this, and
immediately commenced moving backward the way he had come. What a
feeling of confidence came over the imperiled boy when he felt those
friendly fingers in contact with his person. It seemed as though a
tremendous load rolled off his shoulders in the magic of that touch.

Apparently Jerry was leading him toward what looked like a danger point
to be avoided; but, somehow, Frank felt no apprehension. Jerry must
know the barn like a book; indeed, possibly he himself had helped build
it in those days when as a much younger man he had worked on this ranch.

Sure enough, by a sudden turn they managed to put the worst of the fire
behind them. Frank even believed he felt the first whiff of fresh air,
and, oh! how eagerly did he draw it into his tortured lungs.

"Hyar we are, younker!" exclaimed the veteran cowboy as they pushed
past a last nest of fire and reached the open air.

"Look, Dad! There's Frank, safe and sound!" a voice bellowed, and
Lanky, followed by the limping Paul, came rushing toward the pair who
had just emerged from the roaring furnace.

How the other boys did squeeze Frank's hands and almost cried, such was
the tense condition of their strained nerves!

Frank turned and looked back, shuddering. It was not his own narrow
escape that made him feel so weak, but the still haunting dreadful fear
that perhaps Lanky's mother and Minnie had been swallowed up in the
pitiless conflagration.

"Oh! Lanky--is there any news--have you heard--Minnie--your mother?"

His whole soul was in that cry, and although his eyes were still
burning and smarting from the effects of the smoke, he fastened his
gaze on his chum in a most entreating way.

"Cheer up, Frank!" exclaimed Lanky, slapping his chum's shoulder in
what was intended to be an encouraging way. "We've reason to believe
Mom and Minnie weren't in the barn after all when the fire started."

Frank drew a long breath and leaned on Lanky, his sensation of relief
leaving him weak and wobbling.

"But I don't see them anywhere around here!" he exclaimed, looking to
the right and to the left, where the punchers were standing in groups
watching the barn and its contents go up in flames, for no puny human
efforts could now stay the march of destruction.

Lanky was beckoning, and Frank saw that it was Charlie Gin Sing who
started toward them. The Chinaman had apparently managed to get over
the worst of his emotion at seeing such a sight for the first time in
his life; he looked more like his grinning self, Frank noticed, as he
trotted up to where the three boys were standing.

"Charlie," said Lanky, taking hold of the cook's thin arm, "tell Frank
here what you say you saw. He's been afraid the ladies were caught in
the fire. That was what made him rush in there at the risk of his life."

"Me see Missy Wally--young lady come out side door--yep, long time back
till I smell smoke and see barn he ketch fire."

That was lucid, and positive enough to convince Frank that his fears
had after all been groundless. Charlie Gin Sing could be depended on to
tell a straight story.

"Where were you when you saw them come out?" asked Frank.

"Me standee kitchen door--get lungs full air--wave hand at Missy
Wally--she like Charlie his cooking--wave hand back--finest lady in all
land, Missy Wally."

"Which way did they go after coming out of the barn?" continued Frank,
bent on getting at the full facts, for if those who were missing had
returned to the ranch house, it was strange they had not appeared on
the scene, with all that racket going on.

"Walk away--hab lit basket 'long--come from China--ginger like all
Chinese eat."

"Show me the direction they were heading when last you saw them,
Charlie. It's queer they haven't shown up by now, no matter where they
went."

"That's straight goods, Frank," interrupted Lanky, his forehead
wrinkled with anxiety.

"Think Missy Wally she go them woods--me tell her wild flowers grow
there where cattle drink at spring! Look! What tell you? Here come
runnin', you savvy, like in big hurry!"

Lanky gave a whoop.

"He's right, Frank--Paul! There they come, and running, too. Oh! I'm
so glad I could yell my head off. All this while they've been there in
that patch of trees they say Josh Kinney planted fifty years ago."

Frank was about as much relieved as his chum; but, just the same, he
noticed something that apparently Lanky had missed.

"Your mother acts as though exhausted, Lanky," he said. "See how Minnie
tries to buoy her up. Was it because of their fears the ranch house was
burning up and some lives in danger, or did something else happen to
frighten them?"

Mr. Wallace was already hastening toward the approaching pair, and the
three boys started on the run, Paul hobbling bravely along, although
his ankle gave him frequent stabs of pain.

The "woods," as the big clump of trees was called by the punchers, were
some distance away from the ranch buildings, and it took the boys an
appreciable length of time to draw near Mrs. Wallace and Minnie.

"I was right," Frank kept telling himself, as he noted the looks of
both Mrs. Wallace and the girl. "Something dreadful has certainly
happened to make them act that way! Mrs. Wallace seems ready to drop,
and Minnie, too, is as pale as a ghost. But, anyway, they are safe
enough, and not caught in that fire-trap!"

Now they reached the pair, and Lanky threw his arm around his mother.

"Oh, what a scare we've had!" he told her. "We believed you had both
been caught in the burning barn. But Charlie Gin Sing gave us the
right stuff when he said he had seen you come out and head for the
woods."

"But we have been in danger, after all," said his mother, in quivering
tones. "I shall never, never want to visit those awful woods again.
Only for Minnie's presence of mind I might have lost my life!"

"Why, what happened?" asked the astounded and anxious Lanky.

"Snakes--rattlesnakes! A whole den of them!" gasped the still
shuddering Mrs. Wallace.




CHAPTER V

A RATTLESNAKE ROUND-UP


Frank Allen could see now where Lanky got his horror of snakes, since
his mother seemed to have the same detestation and fear of them.

He looked at Minnie, as though wondering whether she would back the
older lady up in that astounding assertion. One prairie rattler would
be bad enough, but to speak of a whole den, and so close to the ranch
house as that, seemed a bit as though Mrs. Wallace unconsciously
magnified things.

But to his surprise Minnie immediately nodded her head.

"Yes, there were ever so many of the nasty wriggling things, Frank,"
she assured him in her convincing way. "Some were monsters, and others
teenty little bits of snakes, but full of fight just the same, big or
little."
